[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Ponder
this question.
Is it possible that the most
difficult things that have ever
happened to us were the
greatest opportunities we've
been given to grow and evolve?
That is the biggest question my
guest, spiritual teacher Matt
Kahn, asked himself,
only to help him discover
love is really the only answer.
Hi, I am Lisa Garr, and
joining me is Matt Kahn.
He's a spiritual teacher
and a highly attuned
empathetic healer, who's
become a YouTube sensation
with this healing and
often humorous videos,
through the invitation to
join the love revolution that
begins with you.
Matt Kahn is also the author
of "Whatever Arises," "Love
That," and "Everything
is Here to Help You."
Welcome.
Thank you for being here.
>>MATT KAHN: Thanks
for having me.
It's an honor to be here.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
I love your
perspectives on things.
They're just fantastic.
It's like you look through
life from a different lens.
But I have to ask you, how
did this all start for you?
>>KAHN: Oh, my goodness.
If I go back to my
childhood, which
seems so much like a mystery.
When I was a kid, I
had very confusing
emotional experiences, that
I'm sure a lot of people
will resonate
with, where I would
feel the emotions of other
people and my misunderstanding
as I thought that the
feelings I felt in them
was their opinion of me.
>>LISA: How many people do that?
I do that, yes.
>>KAHN: Later in life, in
my spiritual evolution,
I came to know that
as a process called
vibrational codependency.
And what I would do was, I
would work hard by entire life
to cheer everyone up,
whether friends, my parents.
And only when they felt
better in my presence
did I think that I was liked.
So I developed this
very low self-esteem,
because I was empathing
other people's energy
and then mistaking their
experiences to somehow
be about me.
And I went through this
experience most of my life,
not knowing that it was really
a really extreme foundation
for the work I do, which now I
can tune into people's energy.
But now as an attuned
empathic healer,
I'm able to use that ability
to help people unblock
the blockages in their heart.
>>LISA: Well, how did
that empathic ability
show up for you, as a child,
as a teen, as a pre-teen,
where did you end up?
>>KAHN: Wow, well,
I could profoundly
feel other people's pain.
I could feel the
loss in their life,
and I could feel the
lack in their life.
And I can remember
from an early age,
I could feel what people
wanted and didn't have.
And it somehow became
my mission, in some way,
to figure out how do I
become what they need.
So if someone was alone
and needed friendship,
I had to be their friend.
>>LISA: This is
the people pleaser.
This is how that starts.
>>KAHN: 100%.
Right, and the people
pleaser, thank goodness,
after many years, transformed
into a light worker.
But I spent my entire
childhood lost in people
pleasing because I
didn't know how to be OK
when other people weren't OK.
In fact, I would
rather not be OK,
because I can actually
be OK in not being OK.
But to see someone
else not be OK
that doesn't have the
tools to deal with it
was agonizing for me.
>>LISA: What does that mean you
could be OK with not being OK?
>>KAHN: From a very
early age, and I
was raised in a family
of loving parents,
but I was raised in
a family where there
was a lot of tumultuous
emotional energy,
to where at the drop of
a dime, a parent would
go from being your friend and
your ally to being a monster.
And not in a tragic way
or not in an abusive way--
>>LISA: Just the
way they knew it.
>>KAHN: The way they knew
it from their paradigm,
from their triggers.
And as a kid, any time
someone would get upset,
I immediately thought that
I was doing something wrong.
>>LISA: Especially
being so sensitive.
>>KAHN: Being so sensitive.
And because my family,
there was a lot
of aggressive, emotional
energy that would constantly
be triggered, I had to
develop this ability
to learn how to be OK in
the fire of intensity.
>>LISA: What about siblings,
anyone else around having
the same experience?
>>KAHN: You know, my sister
is 10 years older than me.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAHN: So I was kind of
raised as an only child.
Because by the
time I came to be,
my sister was already
having our own life
in high school and college.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAHN: So I was kind
of raises an only child.
And I was in the
kind of a family
where if someone needed to
confront you, in that moment,
right then and there, no
questions asked, here we go.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAHN: So I was I was raised
in an environment where you
could be backed into a corner.
We have to have a conversation.
And this is the time
we have to have it.
And there's nothing to
do but deal with it.
So I think-- and I know
that sounds really intense.
But I was I was raised
in an environment where
I didn't have a lot of options.
>>LISA: But also
that confrontational,
constant confrontation--
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: --means
there's no safety.
>>KAHN: No safety.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAHN: And so-- and
this is going to--
this is just the words
that come into my mind
when I tune into that.
There was no safety, but
there was a moment or a point
where I stopped
looking for safety.
>>LISA: What did that do?
>>KAHN: That relaxed me.
And it allowed me to be in
the midst of an environment
where I would feel threatened.
And in the midst of
feeling threatened,
something would
change inside of me.
And I would just find myself
inside of my body, watching.
And I would watch the
trigger of a family member.
I would watch their
confrontation with me.
I would watch my body
and my nervous system
respond to their energy.
Because what happens is,
when people are expressing
aggressive energy, we're
reflecting it back out
with our nervous system.
And so I would watch my
nervous system respond
to their nervous system--
aggressive energy
reflected back, passive.
And I'd watch the play.
And at a certain
point, and I know
that sounds really strange,
I stopped looking for safety.
It was almost like I would
feel unsafe for 10 seconds,
and then somewhere in that
experience, a sense of safety
disappeared.
It wasn't even a
question anymore.
And in that, I was watching, I
was observing, I was feeling.
But I was affected.
And there was
something in me that
started to study my interactions
with people like it was
some sort of training ground.
And I've been doing this since
I was a very small child.
And I had this innate
ability to just
watch, and to observe, and
to learn through observation.
And I started to
watch the patterning,
and, oh, this again.
>>LISA: So you could see that.
But what's the difference
between what you're talking
about and just disassociation?
Do you know what I mean?
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: Denial, protection,
disassociating--
>>KAHN: Well, I wasn't outside--
>>LISA: --shutting down.
>>KAHN: Yeah, I
think disassociation
is a form of denying what's
happening I wasn't denying
that it was happening,
it was just that it
wasn't happening to me anymore.
>>LISA: That's
still dissociation,
but you've embraced the moment.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: You embraced it,
you became one with it.
>>KAHN: Yeah, and what I
noticed is when there was--
when I noticed that it
was happening, but it--
how can I put this into words?
What I would notice is
that in the beginning,
there was an attack
coming towards me.
And then there would
be this opening, where
I would see my parent
is not attacking me,
they're actually sharing
their history of pain with me.
>>LISA: Oh, you saw through it.
That's a big difference.
>>KAHN: Right.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>KAHN: That's what I'm
trying to put into words.
>>LISA: Yeah, I see.
>>KAHN: So, it wasn't
like I removed myself
to get away from the pain of
identifying with the attack.
I would actually see that while
it looks like my mother is
attacking me, I was watching
my mother act out to me the way
her father had treated her.
So my mother was
showing me her wounds.
>>LISA: Her pain.
>>KAHN: And on a soul level, it
was her soul's way of saying,
I'm going to show you
what I went through,
and this is why I can't meet
you where you want to be met.
>>LISA: Most people don't figure
that out till they're well out
of the house--
>>KAHN: Right.
>>LISA: --having their own
children and own experiences.
>>KAHN: Sure.
>>LISA: And then they see,
they did the best they could
with the tools they had.
And you were seeing that
when you were young.
>>KAHN: Yeah, at least
by the age of 10.
>>LISA: 10.
>>KAHN: And I would see that.
I didn't know what
to do with it.
But what happened was, I
would start to see that,
from a very early
age, even though I
didn't put these pieces together
until I was an adult, that when
I thought that other people's
experiences were caused by me,
I was in an experience
where I was focusing on I am
the victims of someone's pain.
When I would start to
spontaneously see differently,
it was almost like I would
wake up out of the belief
that I am the cause of this.
That was the prime
belief in my mind,
is I am the cause of this.
Soon as I am the cause
of this would disappear,
I would actually see that
what is coming towards me
is someone showing me
their unresolved past.
>>LISA: It's like you
were analyzing it.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: At 9, 10 years old.
>>LISA: You know,
in your book named,
"Everything is
Here to Help You"--
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: --you literally were
utilizing all that information
to help you.
So you had an experience with
an angel that I read about.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: When did that come in?
>>KAHN: Well, when I was
about eight years old,
I went to sleep one night
and I thought I was dreaming.
>>LISA: Way before this
whole experience happened.
>>KAHN: It's weird to track it.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAHN: But I remember
when I was eight,
I had this experience.
And I found myself in a
garden that I'd never been in.
And I had a very
profound knowing of I
don't know where I am, but
I'm totally safe, which
was something I'd never
felt. And then I was
walking through this garden.
And the colors of
this garden were
so brilliant, were
so bright, it was
like they were overflowing
with the vibration of love.
And it was a greater love than
I had ever felt for my family.
It held me in a level of safety
that I can actually still
feel to this day.
>>LISA: Indelible.
>>KAHN: Indelible, it penetrated
my being as a permanent imprint
from that eight-year-old
experience.
And I remember walking
through this garden
of waist-high flowers.
And I was feeling my
little eight-year-old legs
pushing through these
waist-high flowers.
And then I was noticing
that I was also hovering
above my body, watching this.
And I didn't know how both
things were happening,
but the love was so immense
it was just accepted.
And then in front of me,
about 20 feet in front of me,
was a man with long dark hair,
a beard, and a white robe.
He motioned towards him.
I didn't move.
And he was hovering
above the flowers too.
And then I started floating
towards this man automatically.
And I got about as close
to him as I am with you.
And out of his eyes were
just pure white light.
And for some reason, I
thought of like scary movies,
where people roll their
eyes up in their head.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAHN: That broke the
state of the experience.
I fell through the
garden, through the sky,
and back in my body.
And only when I fell back in my
body did I know that I left it.
And I was freezing cold.
I was dripping with sweat.
And I saw the same being in
this white chalky material
in the corner of my bedroom,
motioning me towards him,
and I looked and he disappeared.
And then the next day, I
went to a friend's house,
talking about this experience.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAHN: I was in
their living room
and they had a
painting on the wall.
And the painting, I
said that's who I met.
And with absolute irreverent
certainty, that's who I met.
And my friend said, Matt,
you did not meet Jesus.
And my friend said, Matt, you're
Jewish, you don't meet Jesus.
And I didn't know the
big deal, but I just
know that's who I met.
And so I had no historical
reference really
of who Jesus was.
I'd heard his name,
didn't know what it was.
And all I can tell you is, there
was a meeting in that moment,
there was an activation.
And ever since that moment,
I felt guides walking with me
in my peripheral vision.
I would know things without
knowing how I knew things.
And I think at eight, that's
what created this perspective
shift, where in the middle
of some sort of heated attack
or conversation--
>>LISA: That's
why you felt safe.
>>KAHN: That's the
safety, exactly.
>>LISA: And that's
why you kept seeking.
>>KAHN: That's right.
>>LISA: Because anyone who
has an experience like that,
tries to recreate it.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: I had a near-death
experience as well.
And it's something you
constantly look for.
>>KAHN: Constantly.
>>LISA: The rest of your life.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: And it's indelible,
and it's like it just happened.
>>KAHN: It's a permanent--
>>LISA: Yeah, experience.
>>KAHN: --imprint inside of you.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAHN: And so I
would be able to--
and what's interesting
is when I would
have these arguments
with my parents,
I wouldn't feel the guides
with me at that point.
I would just have this
perspective shift,
where I could see that anything
someone was saying to me
was their soul opening
up their body, showing me
what is unresolved with them.
And then years later
what I realized,
is that the energy field that
we all live in, when activated--
mine got activated at eight
from that experience--
is that people are showing
you their unresolved pain,
and it is our energy
fields that are
healing that as we witness it.
And I didn't know I was actually
already living as a healer.
>>LISA: OK, so now, you find
someone in today's adult life.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: That is, that you
have an adversity with,
or rubs you the wrong way.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: Or just doesn't gel.
>>LISA: Do you go
into resentment?
Or do you go into that
same eight-year-old
boy that could see the layers?
>>KAHN: Oh, I have been--
over the years, from all
the experience I've had, from
the eight-year-old experience,
and I've had so many more,
I have been permanently put
into this perspective, what's
called an abiding awakening.
I live in what's
called Samadhi, which
is a living meditative
trance, which
is how I'm able to transmit
healing energy when I speak.
And that there is no
perspective I take,
there is just what I see.
And other people's
experiences don't pull me
into confrontation.
It doesn't pull me
into an engagement.
And I'm not trying
to get away from it.
It's just that when an
activation like this happens,
you get so close to
the present moment,
you get so intimately enmeshed
in reality that no one can
pull you out of that center.
So it's not me trying
not to stay centered
or get pulled out of it, there's
just nothing to pull me out of.
So there's really nothing
for me to do, but to one,
see their pain being expressed.
And I can actually, and
nowadays, in this scenario,
I can actually feel my
energy field brighten.
I can feel it going
into their field
and actually clearing
out of them what they're
allowing them self to release.
But from their
perspective, it might come
in some sort of an accusation.
Even though in today's
day, I don't experience
mostly anything other
than positive experiences,
I am able to clearly just hold
space in a way where I don't
even have to make a choice.
And that's quite a relief.
>>LISA: Well, let's take a look
at Matt talking about pain.
And then afterwards,
we're going to learn
how to do this ourselves.
Take a look.
>>KAHN: And I think
today's teaching about pain
as sacred medicine is very
crucial and instrumental.
And let's actually
do the healing work
that let's these parts be
seen, heard, and recognized.
So that you don't have to hold
the past in your cellular body.
You can simply move forward
into your predestined future.
Now here's the balance.
When you make choices,
you make choices
based on what feels good.
But if you're in a
situation already,
and something happens,
and your reaction
is you don't feel
good, your reaction
of not feeling good or not
feeling good in response
to an outcome is medicine.
And on the spiritual
journey, we must
find this level of safety,
and at ease-ness, and peace.
And that's the first moment we
start to spiritually explore
ourselves.
Because spiritual
exploration only
occurs beyond the
threshold of problems.
>>LISA: OK, so that
was you transmitting.
And I could see and feel that.
But how do you teach people to
deal with that on their own?
You really had an interesting
perspective there about pain.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: Being like
a master teacher.
>>KAHN: Yes.
You know, I think
that when we're
going to really look at the
plight of human suffering--
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAHN: --I think we have
to really make a decision.
And the decision
is, do I believe
or can I embrace that
every single thing that
comes up in my
experience is a part
of my evolutionary process?
Or is there a part of me that
is still entangled in the belief
that someone is doing
something to me?
So I think we have to first make
a choice with, OK, I'm in pain.
I could deal with the
injustice of pain--
I didn't deserve this, after
all I've done for the world.
>>LISA: Victimhood,
and so forth--
>>KAHN: Right.
>>LISA: --yes.
>>KAHN: So I can go into blame,
I can go into that situation.
Or I can say to myself,
OK, I didn't ask for this,
it chose me.
Pain came to me
like a vision quest,
like a spirit guide
knocking at our door that
says you are now ready for
the next level of mastery.
>>LISA: Wow.
That is a great way
of looking at pain.
>>KAHN: Thank you.
>>LISA: As our teacher.
>>KAHN: As our teacher.
>>LISA: As an opportunity.
>>KAHN: Right, when
you're ready to graduate,
you would think the graduation
would be greater elation.
But what makes room
for greater relation
is the deconstruction
of our conditioning.
And the deconstruction
of our conditioning,
when occurring greatly under
a short period of time,
is rather painful.
So pain is teaching
us we are going
through massive transformation
under a short duration of time.
And the entire
vision quest of pain
is can you allow your mind
to become aware of the fact
that your body is able to relax,
even in the presence of pain,
that you didn't ask
for, and do not prefer.
>>LISA: This is the
time where you really--
I'm reflecting on times of pain.
And you say pain is
spiritual medicine.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: I'm thinking of those
times of deep, deep pain.
>>KAHN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: And I look
back on those and I see
they were my greatest teachers.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: But Matt, I cannot
tell you in the moment--
>>KAHN: Of course.
>>LISA: --that I ever would
find that perspective.
Even to the fact that I know,
I'm going to look back at this
and it's going to
be a great moment.
But right now--
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: --it sucks.
>>KAHN: Totally.
>>LISA: So how do you
get from there to there?
>>KAHN: Well,
that's interesting.
I think that-- so,
historically speaking,
most people in the moment aren't
going to be able to get there.
And it's only in
retrospect are they
going to be able to see from
a different perspective.
But I think that because the
spiritual evolution of humanity
is changing, the
conversation is changing.
And the teachings that I've
been asked to bring forth
is because we're coming
to a period of time
where human beings are able to
actually have this perspective
shift in the presence of
pain, not just afterwards,
looking back in retrospect.
>>LISA: OK, so it's shortening.
>>KAHN: So when we're
actually evolving to able
to have that awareness
in the moment,
part of the first
step of this is
to know that pain
is the releasing
of cellular imprinting
in our body.
And a lot of the
cellular imprinting
of our past, whether
abuse or neglect,
in either situation
of neglect or abuse,
there's a part of us
that didn't have a voice
and didn't have a choice.
So a lot of times,
people in the moment
will say, I can't be at peace,
I have to just rant and rave.
But from my perspective,
the ranting and the raving
is putting a voice and
giving yourself the choice
to express what was shunned,
silenced, and suppressed
from past traumas.
So in the beginning, the first
step of getting to relaxation
is first giving yourself
permission to put a voice,
put a sound to the
pain you're in.
It may be words, expletives.
It may just be
sounds and groans.
As long as we're putting sounds
to our pain, what are we doing?
We're breathing.
>>LISA: And we're getting
it out of ourselves.
>>KAHN: That's right.
As long as--
>>LISA: Just moving it out,
energy, just moving it.
>>KAHN: >>LISA: Yes, so as long
as we are making sounds with
our pain, we are breathing.
And when we're breathing
while in the presence of pain,
we are relaxing
our nervous system.
And to relax or nervous system
is teaching our subconscious
mind that that pain doesn't have
to be like a foreign invasion.
It can be like revisiting
a familiar friend.
And we start to change
the association.
>>LISA: I can see
how that would work.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: And the
way you say it does
have a certain energy to it.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: So let's, if we can,
reframe some of these words,
like you just did
with the word pain.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: What about
the word victimhood?
>>KAHN: Victimhood, I
think that victimhood
is giving a voice to the
parts of ourselves that have
been silenced and suppressed.
I think that the ability to
speak out what we're feeling
is amazing.
It's a very therapeutic thing.
And when I worked
with a lot of people,
it's certainly something
that can be done.
I think the difference
is, and here's
the real slight differentiation,
can we voice words
about being in pain without
it being about those
we think have caused the pain.
>>LISA: That's a big difference.
>>KAHN: Big difference.
>>LISA: Because there's blame.
>>KAHN: That's right.
>>LISA: That's a huge piece.
They did this to me,
who are they to do this?
How could they do
this type of thing?
Who does that?
And it's all that.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: And there's the
responsibility of taking--
take abuse, for example,
how does a child
take responsibility
for being abused?
They can't.
>>KAHN: I'm not sure a child
does take responsibility--
>>LISA: No.
>>KAHN: But it's the
adult they become
that takes responsibility.
So the child's job--
>>LISA: The child's--
>>KAHN: The child's job
is to process the abuse.
And they're going to go through
a lot of different stages,
whether it's blaming themselves
for it, defending their abuser.
There's all these things that
happen when we go through
trauma, abuse, and neglect.
But it's the adult.
And especially when we have
children that, unfortunately,
go through abusive situations,
especially when I've
worked with parents
who are wanting
to raise their children
spiritually, what I often
see happen is they
want their children
to process their
feelings and heal,
but sometimes there is a
pushing a child too fast,
as if that child needs to have
adult spiritual perspective,
instead of allowing the child
the greatest gift, which
is the journey of time.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAHN: Right, because the
child becomes the adult.
And then from the
adult perspective,
we can start to do
a lot of deep work.
So I would say that a
lot of the spiritual work
is very therapeutic
for an adult.
The work that can be
beneficial for a child,
is actually more creative based.
So we get our children to,
let's draw our feelings out.
When we're angry,
what color is it?
Let's turn on some
music and dance out.
Let's dance out anger.
Let's dance out frustration.
Let's draw pictures
of what it felt
like to not have a voice in that
moment where we had no control.
So I think when we're
dealing with children,
we're looking at
creative expression.
When we're dealing
with adults, we're
looking at spiritual
exploration.
>>LISA: And what
you're talking about
is looking at it from a
different perspective.
Everything is here to
teach us something.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: But if that's the
case, do we make mistakes?
Do you believe there is
such thing as mistakes?
>>KAHN: It depends the level
on which we're looking at.
There is both the level
where everything is perfect
and there is no mistake.
But then that, as a trap,
can be an oversimplification.
>>LISA: Yes--
>>KAHN: And a justification.
>>LISA: That spiritual
perspective, everything
is happening for a reason.
>>KAHN: Right.
>>LISA: And sometimes,
I mean, Matt,
do you really think there's a
reason for everything bad that
happens in the world?
>>KAHN: I would
say there is always
a reason why things happen,
but those reasons are not
justifications to short cut
or short side the evolution
of our healing journey.
So at the same time, just
because everything happens
for a reason, on a
soul level, on a very
human level, the ability
to act out a mistake--
and what is a mistake?
But as an opportunity
for you to act
from a level of
consciousness that is not
matching your highest
wisdom, only as a
set up, so that when you look
back in retrospect, seconds
later, or years later, you're
able to receive the wisdom
at that moment that
you weren't ready
for in that momentary decision.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAHN: So there's
the dimension where
mistakes are helping us to align
our actions with our highest
values.
Once we graduate to a different
level of consciousness,
there is a certain level of
perfection in the universe.
But in perfection,
there is the ability
to admit how imperfect and
unjust things seem to be.
>>LISA: So you do have some very
unique perspectives on things.
And so, I want to play a
little game with you, OK?
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAHN: I love games.
>>LISA: We're going to
do something fun here.
>>KAHN: OK.
>>LISA: I'm going to give
you like deep emotions.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: And I want you to
just rapid fire back to me
a different perspective,
a different shift.
So, tell me a different
perspective on fear.
>>KAHN: Fear is repressed,
condensed passion.
So fear is the passion we
have not expressed or let out.
So fear is not a
lack of courage.
It is an artistic, creative
crisis, where the inner artist
is bottled up and not
brought out to play,
and the fermentation of that
creative life force energy
becomes the presence of fear.
>>LISA: That's good.
OK, disappointment.
>>KAHN: Disappointment
is when we are given back
our power from those
we have decided
are meant to play the roles
that they're not meant to play.
So disappointment is
how we reclaim our power
and how someone else's rejection
is how the universe is just
redirecting us in the direction
of where we're meant to be.
>>LISA: Perfectionism.
>>KAHN: Perfectionism,
trying to measure up
to an image of yourself, not
knowing the imperfections
you judge about yourself
is a part of a greater
perfection unfolding.
>>LISA: These are good.
>>KAHN: I like this game.
>>LISA: But I'm still
on disappointment.
That one blew my mind.
>>KAHN: Did it really?
I love that.
>>LISA: That was so good.
It was on-- that was great.
It was really about putting the
responsibility on somebody else
to make you happy.
>>KAHN: That's right.
>>LISA: And then you
get disappointed,
and it was you that did
it in the first place.
>>KAHN: You mailed the
letter to the right house,
but it got to the wrong tenant.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAHN: It's a return--
>>LISA: I totally get that.
>>KAHN: It's a return to sender.
>>LISA: And it's up to you
again to rewrite the letter
and to do the letter yourself.
>>KAHN: That's right.
>>LISA: OK.
Overwhelm.
>>KAHN: Overwhelm
is when we have
gone through too much
healing, or we're
doing too much multitasking,
and our nervous system
is telling us, you are
not giving yourself
enough space to rest,
ground, and for renewal.
So overwhelm is when
we start to shut down
as a way of reminding ourself
of the lack of space or rest
that we truly need to receive.
>>LISA: What about hate.
>>KAHN: Ooh, hate is a
sophisticated sabotage
program, where we are
projecting our own inadequacies
onto others as a way of keeping
others from connecting with us.
Because on the level of
ego, the greatest fear
is, I will connect
with someone intimately
and as soon as I open up to
intimacy, to be vulnerable,
and to be open, now I have
something and someone to lose.
The ego is most afraid of
loving and losing that love.
So hate is how people project
as a defense mechanism all
their unresolved healing
energy onto other people
to keep people rejected, so to
avoid being rejected or seen
as an inadequate
by another person.
>>LISA: So they
attract more hate.
>>KAHN: Right, because
as long as we are hating
and we are attracting
hate, we're
so busy defending
a standpoint, we
don't have to risk losing
anything we don't let in.
So it's an absolute cop out and
refusal to surrender to love.
>>LISA: I seem to find that
a lot in political figures.
>>KAHN: Yeah, and we
can even take it deeper.
So a refusal to love
is what hate is.
But then hate is a
defense mechanism
that protects people from
the real thing they're
the most afraid of, loneliness.
So hatred--
>>LISA: Wow, yeah.
>>KAHN: --is a war
against loneliness.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAHN: Because
in loneliness, we
come into oneness
with ourselves.
We are not having those
to be validated by.
We have to actually
look at ourselves
directly, which is a
part of the turning
inward process of awakening.
So as a defense
against awakening,
and as a war against
the loneliness that
becomes the
unraveling of the ego
and the awakening
of the soul, we
hide behind hatred as a
war against the benefits
of loneliness.
>>LISA: Wow.
Our country is in
that place of hatred--
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: --and divisiveness.
>>KAHN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: And it's
really important
to talk about, it is true,
it is the fear of loneliness.
>>KAHN: And when you see
the fear of loneliness,
when you see the hatred, not
on the level of I'm appalled
by what other people
hate and deny,
but when you see hatred as
a war against loneliness,
you start to see
hearts crying out--
>>LISA: Of course.
>>KAHN: --for loving attention.
And so that we as
empathic beings,
as compassionate
beings, begin to love
the hearts of those
brimming with hatred,
even when we don't agree
of the things they oppose.
>>LISA: Because inside, they're
probably so broken and lonely.
>>KAHN: Right.
>>LISA: And quiet,
and shy, and reserved.
>>KAHN: Right.
>>LISA: And one last
one, what about jealousy?
>>KAHN: I wrote about
this in "Everything
is Here to Help You."
I love this one.
Jealousy is we are feeling
resentful for other people
having what we
think we're entitled
to having in our lives.
And actually, the
things that we're
jealous of in other people,
like other people may have a job
promotion, they may have
more money, a soul mate
relationship, it may not be the
exact things that other people
have, but the emotions that
other people have cause
are jealousy, is
actually the universe
giving us a sneak
preview that says,
the positive feelings
that these people have
by having the things
that you want,
is a sneak preview
of what's coming
your way in your journey.
So in an interesting way,
jealousy is how we become
resentful that other
people have what I don't.
But we unravel
jealousy when we see
that a sign that great
fortune is coming to me
is that it starts showing up
in people's lives around me.
>>LISA: That's a great
way of looking at it.
Just kind of rub shoulders
with those people that
are having great success,
and say, hey, send a little
this way.
>>KAHN: Which is why
it is so powerful
to be grateful and happy for
other people's successes.
Because when you're grateful
and happy for other people's
successes, you're
telling the universe,
I like that they're succeeding,
and I'm ready to be next.
I'm ready to receive.
>>LISA: And then it gets
you out of that complaining.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: Complaining that they
got it or they did it, yeah--
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: --and dissatisfaction.
We're going to take a
look here quickly at Matt
talking about his
book, "Everything
is Hear to Help Us."
>>KAHN: Everyone knows
the purpose of life
is to live with an open heart.
And sometimes on a
spiritual journey,
we're so gung-ho on
our goals that we
forget how to approach it in the
most heart-centered and loving
way.
What's the most loving way to
deal with stress and adversity?
What's the most loving
way to deal with jealousy?
way to resolve anger?
What's the most loving way to
get ourselves through pitfalls
and patterns of sadness?
This book assists
you in learning
how to deal with every aspect
of your spiritual journey
in the most loving,
heart-centered way.
We know to be loving,
we know that we are here
to give and receive love.
But how do we actually
do it in a way that
helps us fulfill
our spiritual goals,
instead of undermine them?
And that's exactly
why I wrote this book,
"Everything is
Here to Help You,"
to help you shift out of
the ego and into the soul,
out of your inner prison and
into the light of your highest
perfection, but in
the most loving way.
Because if we're not doing
it in the most heart-centered
perspective, we're going
to reach for goals,
but we're not going
to quite get there.
So the goal is to be loving
and a heart-centered.
And in order to make
this instinctive, instead
of exhausting, there's a certain
most loving way we go about it.
And that's why I
wrote this book.
>>LISA: So everything
is here to help us,
but I got to back
to complaining.
>>KAHN: I love it.
>>LISA: How does
complaining help us?
>>KAHN: OK, so we have to
see it from a very specific
perspective.
>>LISA: OK
>>KAHN: So, OK, let's make two
great points about complaining.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAHN: So we talked
earlier that hatred
is a war against loneliness.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAHN: So when we
are complaining,
we're actually looking for
resonance in other people,
and we're putting out this
energy that says, I'm lonely,
I'm not whole within myself, I
need attention and validation
from other people.
And I'm going to
put out a complaint,
because I'm not ready to
leave my negative standpoint.
I just want to see
if there's people
that will keep me company.
So that's--
>>LISA: Right--
>>KAHN: --the mechanism.
>>LISA: Misery loves company.
>>KAHN: Right, so there's a
desire for social interaction
in complaining, as we refuse
to leave the negativity
and open up to the
light of positively.
On that level, that's
how we understand
the compulsion of
complaining, is
that everyone can
voice their opinion,
and then we start to find
who we resonate with.
And it's almost like complaining
is the shadow's form of finding
it's soul family.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAHN: In a very funny way.
>>LISA: Completely.
When you're in a big group, and
you're part of an organization,
and you're like, oh,
they did that wrong, they
did that wrong, then
you find your people.
>>KAHN: Isn't that just
the juiciest thing.
>>LISA: Here's my people.
>>KAHN: Oh, my god,
we all get each other.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAHN: And we call that
being real, don't we?
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAHN: Oh, it's so clever.
>>LISA: And then we
create a coup, yes.
>>KAHN: But the
second part of it,
which I just came
up with recently,
because I download
all these teachings,
is that we are beings of source.
And source energy, the
light, is a creative energy.
We have the ability
to self-reflect,
and everything is
constantly changing.
So we are creative beings.
So in our presence,
creative energy
is always trying to flow.
Now when people awaken,
what we're awakening
is the consciousness
of creative energy.
So what happens is the first
level of creative energy,
going from bottled-up
repression into expression,
is that we look at
the forms of life.
And our first
level of creativity
is how creatively can I
change the things in view
as a way of bringing my own
inner artist to the table?
So complaining is how
someone's first level
of creative expression--
>>LISA: Happens.
>>KAHN: --is being creative,
but they're creatively saying,
here's how I think this moment
needs to change, instead
of the creativity,
which is, what am I
going to bring forth to the
world that is expressing
what I'm for and not against?
So when someone is complaining
to us about something else,
or even criticizing
us, I've really
sat with the experience
of their criticism of me
is their creativity
bubbling to the surface.
Because my creative
energy as source,
is bringing their creative
energy alive within them.
And the first level
of creative expression
is here's how creatively
I can pick apart
what I don't like about you.
And here's what I
think needs to change.
>>LISA: That is great.
That's a wonderful way of even
accepting creative criticism.
>>KAHN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: And constructive
criticism, and it
can be without you
getting defensive,
and your ego coming
out and saying,
nope, I need to be the boss.
>>KAHN: Right.
>>LISA: And you can
actually grow more that.
You can evolve more in that way.
Ego comes out first though.
>>KAHN: It always does.
>>LISA: What do about that.
>>KAHN: Well, that's
the defense mechanism.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAHN: Right?
>>KAHN: The lion comes out
first to protect its children.
So when I'm in the presence
of someone, and nowadays,
it doesn't happen
that often, but when
I'm in the presence of someone
who is being critical of me,
or just being
critical, what I know
is this, how graciously I
receive their criticism,
two things occur.
If I receive their
criticism graciously,
I take their darkness, I
transmute it into the light.
And so I don't
drink their poison,
I receive their blessing
on the soul level.
And if I can receive their
criticism graciously,
I've done one powerful thing.
And that is, help this
person get one step closer to
instead of leading
with the criticism,
to offer a compliment.
>>LISA: And do you
actually say that?
Thank you for that.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: Is there anything
that you did like or do
want to share with
me that's good?
>>KAHN: What I've said before--
>>LISA: That would be a
great way to rephrase it.
>>KAHN: So I'll
give you an example.
I was with a family member--
I'll give you two examples.
One was just in the presence
of a family member who was just
going on political tirades.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAHN: And I'm a
very spiritual being.
I don't happen to keep up
on those subject matters.
My way of watching the news is
that whatever I need to know,
people tell me.
Everyone's my reporter.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAHN: And so, this
person's talking
about political
turmoil, all this stuff.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAHN: 10-minute tirade.
And I sat there, breathing
slowly, holding space for them.
And I sat there, and
what I said to them was,
I really appreciate-- and I
meant this from my heart--
I really appreciate you
sharing with me what
you're most passionate about.
And they stopped
and looked at me.
When most-- you can see
in their eyes, most times
they go off on political stuff,
and it creates this deflection
energy, where they guarantee
the rejection that they've
had in the past, that they're
afraid to revisit again
in the future.
And the greatest fear
most people have is I'm
afraid to put my best
foot forward, because what
if I put my best foot forward--
>>LISA: And I get rejected.
>>KAHN: --and it
still isn't enough?
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAHN: So I'd
rather just sabotage
and at least know, oh, they
couldn't handle the truth
of what I'm talking about.
It's a very entitled,
self-fulfilling prophecy.
So they came out with
me with this tirade.
And I said I really appreciate
you sharing with me what
you're passionate about.
I didn't respond
to whether I agree
with their political standpoint.
I talked about their
expression of passion.
And then I said to
them, I would love also
to know if there's anything
else you're passionate about,
and the invitation went deeper.
And they didn't go there,
but I opened the door.
And I remained open to them.
And I know that
what I did to them
is I showed them that
on a subconscious level,
if you want to share
something deeper, you're safe.
And I was there
to open the door.
>>LISA: That's nice.
>>KAHN: And I had someone
else once give me some very
constructive criticism.
And I said, thank
you for offering me
that constructive criticism.
And they said to
me, point blank,
do you think you're
going to implement this--
>>LISA: OK, yeah--
>>KAHN: --into your life?
>>LISA: --I going to ask, yeah.
>>KAHN: And I said,
I don't necessarily
resonate with what you're
sharing as if that's my truth,
but I'm glad you've
shared your truth with me.
>>LISA: That's a great
way of saying that.
>>KAHN: Because I want to
make sure in this conversation
that when I'm showing the
way in which we can engage,
it always has to
do with honesty.
>>LISA: And it always has
to do with them, not you.
>>KAHN: That's right.
So they're constructive
criticism was more about--
and in the position
I was in, I was
talking to someone, who in their
life works in the same field
as I do and deep
down wants to be
seen on a very certain level.
>>LISA: Yeah
>>KAHN: So their
feedback to me was,
first, they revered
my teaching, then
they felt inferior to
what I was offering,
and they wanted to
feel on the same level.
So they projected
something on to me,
so that they would have
something to share.
>>LISA: Oh--
>>KAHN: And I saw that.
>>LISA: You'll have the same
experience with difficult
bosses--
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: --or coaches--
>>LISA: --or teachers.
And whenever there's another
person in the authority
position, the student
or whoever it is
has to be in that
subservient position.
And it's not comfortable.
So to speak your truth
and not get or feel
that you're going to
get yourself in trouble
or in a confrontation--
>>KAHN: Sure.
>>LISA: --that's a
wonderful way of doing it.
>>KAHN: And even, God forbid,
if someone were to say something
and it cost them their
job, isn't a setback, just
a bigger set up for miraculous
possibilities to shine through.
And it was funny,
in the conversation
I said, I'm not going
to take that advice,
thank you very much.
And they said, well, if you're
not going to take the advice,
why are you thanking me?
So this was interesting.
And I said to them, I said,
because you're offering me
a perspective, because
you want to make
sure I don't miss anything.
And that tells me how much
you're supporting me and having
my back.
So I'm thanking you
for supporting me
through this journey.
So I was able to talk to
them about the highest case
scenario, even though that's
not where they were coming from.
>>LISA: That, I mean,
that's very grounded.
That's a wonderful
grounded perspective.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: And it has
to do-- there's
something you write about, about
the five stages of surrender.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: And you talk
a little bit about,
why would somebody surrender?
>>KAHN: Well, I think
that in the beginning
of a spiritual path,
there's the opening
the conversation to surrender.
There is often the
spiritual path of,
I'm trying to surrender,
but it doesn't
work, because people
are trying to surrender
to get out of pain.
It's a bypass.
>>LISA: So that's the personal
abandonment, they just--
>>KAHN: They're trying
to surrender in order
to lighten the load of
their personal experience.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>KAHN: When we get
to real surrender,
real surrender isn't a choice.
It's just the game is over.
And you will get what
you want out of life,
or you won't, but you will
get everything life has
planned for you.
And if you go at life
with your hands up,
and you let life
guide you, you're
going to be more
fulfilled by life's plan
than if you got every single
thing you ever wanted.
And that's the outrageous
fortune of surrender.
>>LISA: That is very expansive,
and at the same time,
surrender can be very painful.
>>KAHN: It's extremely painful.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAHN: It is not for
the faint of heart.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAHN: And there are people
in this world that would rather
hurt other people than face and
surrender to the opportunity
to heal their own hurt.
>>LISA: Well, let's
talk about that.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: Let's talk
about self-hurt.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: And self-maiming--
>>LISA: --suicide.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: That's a different
thing than surrender.
>>KAHN: Yeah, that's escape.
>>LISA: Can we talk
about that distinction?
>>KAHN: Absolutely.
Surrender is surrendering
any limiting belief
that distorts the notion that
no matter how much pain I'm in,
there has to be something that
this is a way that this is
helping me evolve the
attributes of my soul
into sooner or later
becoming a more
radiant expression of myself.
So when we surrender,
we're surrendering
to this has to be something
that's helping me.
This is a wave that
is toppling me,
but the wave is not
trying to drown me.
It is a mode of
transportation when
you let the waves take you.
>>LISA: That would
be the difference.
>>KAHN: That's the difference.
>>LISA: That's the difference.
>>KAHN: When we are
talking about suicide,
we're talking about--
we're actually trying to get
out of the pain we're in.
We're trying to stop the pain.
>>LISA: We're trying to
transform it into growth.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: It's like what we talked
about at the very beginning
of the show.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: These challenges
are here to help us evolve.
>>KAHN: That's right.
And I think the really
beautifully fierce distinction,
we are not here to transform
things into growth.
We are here to grow by
letting things transform us.
>>LISA: That is a beautifully
fierce distinction.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: Letting it transform us
rather than trying to evolve.
>>KAHN: Someone once asked
me, Matt, how can you
sit so calmly, teaching
the way you teach,
and even the things
I've faced in my life.
I have faced and felt pain.
Even recently in my life, I have
experienced everything everyone
experiences.
I experience from a
different perspective.
Someone says, how can you go
through this so peacefully?
And I looked at them, I took
a deep breath, and I said,
there's just nothing left.
>>LISA: To attach itself to?
>>KAHN: Every part
of me that would
have fought has been melted
away, has been wiped away.
I have never turned
away from pain,
simply because I never
even knew I had the option.
>>LISA: But don't you feel
passionate about things,
like injustices in the
world, and want to correct
them and right the wrongs?
>>KAHN: I feel passionate
about how the things we see
are creating space for
deeper things to emerge.
I'm not sitting on my couch
with a passive perspective.
My entire life is dedicated to
the awakening of consciousness.
And there are some
people that want
to stand on the front lines
doing petitions, protesting.
And if that's what they're
called to do, that's great.
I say, put your energy
towards the things
you're for not the
things you're against,
which we've heard
throughout history.
My life is dedicated to
evolving the consciousness
of human beings, because only
when human consciousness has
evolved into unity consciousness
does that actually create
the energetic framework for
all of the new social programs
to be created and to stick.
So I can say that
in my life, I never
want to see another
child abused again.
It breaks my heart every time
I hear of any kind of atrocity,
abuse, the fact that there
are people in this world that
have more food that
they can actually ingest
and there are people in this
world that don't have any,
which is a distribution issue.
But in my life, in
my heart of hearts,
I have been so affected
by these things
that I've plead with
the universe use me.
Use me to bring
good to this planet.
And this is what happened.
So I am living my
life, even when
I'm not doing this with
you, I'm not onstage,
I am praying for the
salvation of humanity.
I am living my life as
if every single heart is
in my body and
the choices I make
are inspiring the world
vibrationally to follow
that lead.
So I literally live my life
as if the way I live my life
is teaching the world
a new way to be.
And that's something that is a--
>>LISA: It's a big mission.
>>KAHN: It's a big mission.
And for me, it's a
lifelong dedication.
There is no moment where I'm
not a part of this change.
>>LISA: I can see how
passionate you are about it.
>>KAHN: Yeah, absolutely.
>>LISA: You've mentioned a
couple times about your guides.
>>KAHN: Yes
>>LISA: Tell me about that.
>>KAHN: Oh my goodness.
>>LISA: Do you hear, see,
feel, touch, how do you
communicate with your guides?
>>KAHN: I see visions sometimes.
Mostly I hear and I feel.
So I talk to them in
telepathic conversations
as clearly as we're talking.
And I've always
had that ability,
to where different
guides will come in,
and I'll see like
an image in my mind,
like when your phone rings
and the picture of the person
pops up.
>>LISA: Yeah, so you're just
thinking of them and they call.
>>KAHN: And they pop up, and
I have this conversation,
and I get this, either
this telepathic download,
where I literally hear
their voice in my head.
And because my first
experience of awakening
came when I was eight and
had the vibration of love,
every conversation I've ever
had with different beings
always has the
vibration of love, which
is how I knew to trust it.
>>LISA: And do you constantly
hear this information?
How do you discern what's
you and what's them?
What's just your
logic mind thinking?
>>KAHN: It's very interesting.
It's a different frequency.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAHN: It's a
different frequency.
It's almost like the logical
mind is your inner artist
studio, where you're
just throwing paints
against a canvas and seeing
what colors they make-- like,
oh, when I put red and blue
together, it makes green.
>>LISA: That's your imagination.
>>KAHN: That's your imagination.
Just, it's like an
artist's laboratory.
It's the artistry of thought.
It's for me, my mind is--
the what if, but just
pondering the cosmos.
And the energy I feel
when it's my own mind,
it is from the
inside out current.
When I'm receiving information,
from the outside in.
>>LISA: It's a
different direction.
>>KAHN: It's a
different gravity.
>>LISA: I see.
>>KAHN: So I received downloads.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAHN: And that's always from
the guidance that I receive.
And whenever I'm just using
my mind, just to play,
it's always from the inside out.
It's a different
gravitational force.
>>LISA: What are your guides
telling you these days.
I mean, what is really the
message that's coming through,
that is trying to
come through you?
>>KAHN: Well, the
whole mission right now
is relaxing the nervous
systems of human beings,
because the more relaxed
are nervous systems are,
the more our cellular bodies
can empty out the memories
and imprintings of the past.
The easier time
our heart can open,
and the easier
our heart can open
the more we find ourselves
living instinctively in the way
I'm describing.
And we live as the
soul, instead of hiding
behind the defensiveness of ego.
But one of the most
amazing things my guides
ever taught me, it was
actually an experience I had,
where I was called to
the Akashic records.
And I actually visited
the Akashic records
and it looks like the
Lincoln Memorial to me.
And these pillars and--
I walked up the steps, and
there was a light table,
this glowing light table.
And all of these
ascended masters
were standing around
it, waiting for me.
And at the moment,
was kind of funny,
because it was all these beings,
and then there was just me.
>>LISA: Big tall, yeah.
>>KAHN: Like eight feet
tall, stoic beings.
My main guide, Malkesa looks
like Gandalf the Wizard,
and talks all biblically--
"My son"-- he talks like that--
"By tomorrow's time"-- it's
all this biblical stuff.
And so I go to this
Akashic records,
which I've been before.
And they said, we have
something to show you.
And they all lift
underneath their chins,
like they're wearing masks.
And they pull up their masks,
and underneath the masks is me,
under all of the masks.
And I like gasped.
>>LISA: Right
>>KAHN: But then I said to
them, it was an honest thing,
I said, I don't get it.
Like, I got that there
was something intense,
but I didn't really get it.
And they said we are not
only what you're becoming,
we are what you've
already become,
and we are agents
of the divine who
have stepped back in
time to visit ourselves
and spiritual childhood.
>>LISA: What?
>>KAHN: So then all the guides--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAHN: Right.
So all the guides--
>>LISA: How did
you remember that?
>>KAHN: It's like
the feeling of love.
>>LISA: Say that again.
>>KAHN: So we are not
only what you're becoming,
we are what you
have already become.
We are agents of the divine
who have stepped back
in time to visit ourselves
in spiritual childhood.
So what that let me know
was that these beings were
objects, or manifestations, of
my own highest consciousness.
Because my life knew myself
as Matt, this character,
my mind had to create
higher characters
to bring me the wisdom from
the outer layers of my energy
field.
From that experience, I
realized Matt and those guides
are the same, one.
And then all of a
sudden, everything
became just currents
of information
that I would bring
forth to the world.
>>LISA: How could this
help other people?
Realizing that they are one, as
well, with their own guidance?
>>KAHN: Yes.
I think one of the
biggest stumbling blocks
is that people say, I
don't hear my intuition
because I don't have
guides talking to me.
I have the ability
to talk to guides.
I still know it's all a
part of my one eternal self.
But I still have conversations
with guides, ascended masters.
Meetings with the
galactic council.
I have very esoteric
experiences,
but my awakenings have
allowed it to be very grounded
and still have a very deep
understanding of how this
works on an archetypal level.
And so I think that
a lot of people
want to have conversations
with their guides,
but if they have the kind
of access that they wanted,
they'd never leave their house.
So I think that when we
really start to wake up out
of the definition of,
I am this one person,
and I want to have my
guides on speed dial,
and we really relax, that
whole insistence, or I want--
or the belief of if the universe
isn't talking my ear off,
I'm not hearing the messages.
>>LISA: You need to
be really loud and--
>>KAHN: Right.
The truth is whether you
hear the messages or not,
or you're just guided to
be in the perfect moment
or the perfect time,
you're always in alignment
with your highest
living potential.
And I think people
get really stuck
on it needs to be
one specific way,
instead of relaxing into
everyone's intuition
works rather differently.
My intuition works
really differently
than most other intuitives.
I didn't learn the way
most intuitives learn.
I learned from the
universe directly.
I came into this
field, I started
talking to other
intuitives, and I went, wow,
we're speaking
different languages.
>>LISA: Really?
>>KAHN: Yeah, I have
different symbols.
I have different ways of
receiving information.
I transmit energy with
the sound of my voice.
I actually don't even do
energy work on people.
The energy that comes
through my words,
it's like angels
coming through my voice
and doing the healing on
behalf of who I'm working with.
I literally just speak and just
stand in someone's presence,
and everything
happens by itself.
>>LISA: So you allow
that, you allow yourself
to be a conduit for that.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: But how is
Matt's life going?
>>KAHN: Matt's life is--
I can tell you,
when I was a kid,
I was so energetically
sensitive.
I was so aware, but so immature,
of course, like all kids are.
When I was a kid,
I didn't like kids.
I wanted to be around adults.
I was like little old
man, to be honest.
Everything bothered me.
I was happy if I was in
my room playing Nintendo,
but this is my
parents would argue,
I'd have to come out of my
room and break up their fight.
I my parents'
marriage counselor.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAHN: So as an
adult, Matt, now, I'm
having the most fun I've
ever had in my life.
When I was a kid, I couldn't
wait to be an adult.
>>LISA: Yeah
>>KAHN: And now I know why.
Because I'm having
the greatest time.
The maturity is grounded
into my beingness,
to where being a
responsible adult,
I have more carefree energy
than when I was a kid.
And the level of
clarity that I have--
>>LISA: Because
you're having fun.
>>KAHN: Yeah, I'm having
a blast in my life.
And you would think
that someone who's
life mission is raising
the vibration of the planet
could be rather intense.
>>LISA: One last
question, your parents--
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: So what is your
relationship with them now?
>>KAHN: Well, both my
parents have since passed.
I helped both my parents leave
their body on their deathbed.
>>LISA: You did?
>>KAHN: In the last
years, in the last 10
years of both my
parents' life, I
was a spiritual teacher
to both my parents.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAHN: My parents always
believed in my abilities.
They always nurtured it.
They are very
mystical background.
So they could recognize
my experiences
and always believed in them.
And, of course, there was a lot
of interesting relationships
and patterning as
all families have.
>>LISA: Past lives and so forth.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: How do you
help them pass?
Together?
>>KAHN: Well my dad passed
a year before my mom.
And I've done this for my
grandmother, for my father,
and my mother.
And it's kind of a known
thing in my family,
that if someone's
not feeling well
and I unexpectedly come to
town, someone's about to cross.
I'm kind of like
the angel of death.
My family--
>>LISA: That's a
good reputation.
>>KAHN: It's actually
very calming for me.
I've been in the room
when death is lurking.
And when things
get really intense,
I get very relaxed
and very focused.
So I helped my grandmother
relax and surrender
to leave her body.
>>LISA: But what
about your parents,
who you're so close with?
>>KAHN: You know, it's
a very funny thing.
I have a lot of
love for my parents.
And I learned from
a very early age
that I was serving my parents'
evolution as their son.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAHN: But to me, it was a
conscious role I was playing.
And so I went to help
my parents crossover,
honest to God, my experience
of my parents crossing over,
and I can just share my
unique experience, was--
I love both of my
parents, I actually
still talk to them
on the other side.
I connect with them
when I see them.
My experience of them was relief
because I thought now they're
not limited by their
physical bodies anymore,
now they're out of
their ego structures,
now they can finally be free.
And the hardest thing for
me was watching my mom
try to live without my father.
And as soon as my mom crossed
over, my parents were both free
and they were both
together, dancing in heaven.
And I thought my prayers
have been answered.
Because all I wanted
was my parents
to be together when their
work on this planet was done.
And when they both left,
I didn't feel relief
because I didn't
like my parents,
I felt relief because I felt
like I fulfilled a mission
as their spirit guide.
>>LISA: You were their
spiritual teacher.
>>KAHN: Yes.
>>LISA: Amazing.
I always ask my guests, what
is your biggest why, as to why
you do what you do?
In a short answer, you can
just tell me, what is it.
>>KAHN: Why I do what I do.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAHN: Because
this is my calling.
And when you have been
called to do what you do,
you make a choice that
doesn't feel like there
are any other options.
>>LISA: That's honest.
>>KAHN: Yeah.
>>LISA: OK, well, thank you so
much for sharing your journey
with us.
>>KAHN: Thank you.
>>LISA: It's been fascinating.
And for teaching us about how
to be conduits for the universe,
and to listen to our guidance,
and for all that you teach,
and how to utilize everything
being here to help us
Thank you.
And if you would like to
watch more of my shows,
you can go to
"Inspirations" on Gaia.
I'm Lisa Garr.
And I invite you to
always stay aware.